The following is based on everything from the EN version of the game and two images made by a Japanese user who remains anonymous, other versions have different translation results, so the story may vary.

I will not, if not rarely will use other translations of the game to tell this story to you as doing so may ruin the way the devs intended to tell this story for the EN version of the game.

I’ve tried my very best to help whoever is reading this understand this cluster of a story, its not perfect I know, but I’ve done my best. Enjoy!

BEGINNING OF TIME

THE CREATOR (GOD) creates the Sirens and Shipgirls

In the future, the Sirens almost eradicated almost all of mankind leaving only 10% of them left, with nothing left to do, they go back to present time. Hoping to continue their evolutions through fighting, they stopped invading during the present to conduct experiments on the sea by creating Shipgirls and giving them humanity. From there, they observe the Shipgirls growth and humanity.

SHIPGIRLS

Created by the Sirens (TESTER-BETA and TESTER-ALPHA) they are born from the PRIME BODY and MENTAL CUBES, they are then given humanity and observed by the Sirens. There are two types of Shipgirl:

The inferior versions are called “PIECES” The ones who follow you, the Commander are “PIECES” who must be awakened by you in order to match the powers of their “PRIME BODY” and gain their own consciousness.

YOUR PURPOSE

Shikikan (YOU) are indirectly given these “MENTAL CUBES” by the Sirens through your journey as they observe you. Mankind sees the potential of the use of these “MENTAL CUBES” and plan to use these against the Sirens.

MAIN STORYLINE:

In the beginning, a coalition between the IRON BLOOD, SAKURA KINGDOM, ROYAL NAVY, EAGLE UNION and EASTERN STAR/NORTHERN UNION were formed, this coalition is what AZUR LANE is. AZUR LANE believes that natural evolution is the right path of mankind’s survival.

Soon after, through unknown means the twins, Akagi and Kaga (FIRST CARRIER DIVISION) are led to believe that the future of mankind can only be saved by serving the Sirens and plan to form an alliance with them for their power.

Because of this, the IRON BLOOD and SAKURA KINGDOM betrayed AZUR LANE and formed what is known as the RED AXIS. The RED AXIS are then given powers by the Sirens. The sisters, Shoukaku and Zuikaku (FIFTH CARRIER DIVISION) grow suspicious of the Sirens and decide to defect and fight against Akagi and Kaga (FIRST CARRIER DIVISION).

PROLOGUE

While on a mission scouting, Norfolk and Suffolk are attacked by regular IRONBLOOD ships, in which they easily repel, Prinz Eugen then shows up and attempts to battle the two of them alone but Hood and the Prince of Wales show up to assist Norfolk and Suffolk, to fight against who they think is Bismark.

After their battle, Prinz Eugen claims that the Royal Navy’s weapons are useless against her and the Prince of Wales realises that Prinz Eugen was a decoy sent to act as Bismark.

However, it was too late and they were ambushed by the real Bismark, Hood is then shot and (possibly killed) before dying, Hood questions Bismark on her power and why she decided to get involved with ‘it’ (hinting that she may have been aware of the Sirens) in which Bismark quickly orders the rest of the IRONBLOOD ships to retreat in order to hide their “secret weapon”

The world is falling apart... The one with power stands up to fight the torrent of history.

However, it is known that power will attract other power, bringing forth even greater waves.

TORA TORA TORA

Shikikan leads Long Island to find Hornet during a live exercise, meanwhile at the main harbour, a war has broken out and Arizona, California, West Virginia and Oklahoma were all hit during an air raid lead by Akagi and Kaga, Shikikan is then sent by HQ to defend the harbour to prevent the enemy from breaking through. The defense is successful and HQ orders Shikikan to give chase, where they discover Akagi and Kaga and both of them engage in a fight.

Akagi tells Kaga to cancel the third wave of airstrikes as the main objective had been completed, and though Kaga tells Akagi that it would be possible to finish off the rest of the rebelling forces, Akagi tells Shikikan that she is sparing them because “it was the will of a million gods”

Battle of the coral sea

Lexington and her fleet hold their ground as they repel attacking forces, meanwhile Enterprise contacts Hornet and informs her that her (Enterprise) tracks have been found, Hornet then assists Enterprise in repelling the enemy ships and they successfully defeat Shouhou where Shouhou notes that she got over excited, and notes that it was a grave mistake of her lifetime.

Battle of Midway

Enterprise, Hornet and Yorktown travel to Midway Island in order to stop Akagi and Kaga, Enterprise shows concern for Yorktown regarding her wounds from her previous battle (not explained how she got her wounds ingame) in which Yorktown tells Enterprise not to worry.

As they carry out their attacks, Akagi is annoyed by the resistance from Azur Lane, in which she questions how something so bulky can be a match against the “Type Zero” (airplanes).

Akagi warns that they still need to keep an eye on the three carriers movements though Akagi notes that “the lady in the back is enjoying seeing the two forces fight against each other” Both fleets encounter each other and then engage in a fierce firefight resulting in both sisters getting destroyed by Azur Lane.

Before going down, Akagi notes that her fate was unavoidable and that she would have preferred to side with Shikikan had she not already sided with the Sirens.

The fleet continues their attack as they advance towards the (2ND FLEET) they manage to destroy Soryuu and advances toward Hiryuu, before Hiryuu was destroyed, she launches a final attack against Yorktown which ultimately wounds her severely, before dying however, Yorktown passes “Grim Reaper” (the eagle) to Enterprise before dying.

Tester Beta notes the amount of deaths that happened during the battle, in which she states is a very sad method of evolution, Tester Alpha then says that all is according to plan and that they should proceed with the next step.

A round of perfect dive bombs. History and time would be fixed at this one moment

Nobody would have thought that this one moment would become the crossroads for the world to change.

Whether it was true strength or a stroke of good luck, or even a coincidence brought by fate This moment

The sisters, Shoukaku and Zuikaku were caught up in a storm while looking for the sanctuary when they encountered an unknown vessel approaching them, Shoukaku tells her sister to quickly get away and is captured by the Sirens.

--POWER, HOPE AND PLANS--

After sailing halfway across the world, Repulse and the Prince of Wales finally reached the Far East again, Repulse talks about how the last time she was in the Far East, she upheld the prestige of the Royal Navy alongside her sister ship, Hood.

Prince of Wales does not speak much after hearing Repulse mention Hood

(Hinting this event takes place after the prologue) and Repulse apologises for bringing it up.

The Prince of Wales reminds Repulse that the Sakura Empire is sneaking around the Far East, and for the sake of the Royal Navy’s honor they must be stopped without advancing in the area.

The two of them then set out to seek for Sakura Empire units around the Far East.

Ominous Suspicions

Vampire alerts the Prince of Wales that unknown enemy aircraft was approaching their location, with no fleet detected nearby, Prince of Wales is annoyed by the fact that they were discovered early, but reminds Vampire that the enemy’s bombers are no match for their battleships and told her to ready her aircraft guns.

And they engage in a firefight against the enemy bombers.

Z Fleet’s Counterattack

Mogami reports in to Atago about a rumour that the Army Air Corps had discovered that the Royal Navy is currently out of port.

Atago, knowing that the Royal Navy had travelled halfway across the world, decides to move in and start to stir things up, and they head south to intercept the Z-fleet.

Outcome 1

Repulse alerts the Prince of Wales that another wave of torpedoes were coming towards their direction, and they engage in evasive maneuvers.

Prince of Wales says that their situation would not be so dire had the Indomitable*(im guessing Indomitable is a HMS ship that is not ingame yet)* did not strike the rock.

Repulse asks if it was the end of the line for them, and admits that she had underestimated the Sakura Empire’s aircraft, she then continues by saying that her weapons could no longer keep up with the times and wishes she could shower the enemy with a volley, but wishes her sister ship, Hood was still here, as she misses the times where both of them travelled around the world.

Cannon’s Elegy

Prince of Wales asks Hood if she were to face the same situation again, what would she do, in the end, she decides to face the enemy head on. (This is one of those scenes where the character talks to herself and its meant to look cool and stuff, like those cheesy anime shows)

Outcome 2

Atago comments on how the Prince of Wales was like a steel giant, being very fragile under a torpedo attack.

She also comments on how their credit was stolen by the Army Air Corps, which was unexpected to her, and reminds herself to play smarter in the future.

Kongou shows up, telling Atago that the sisters of the First, Second and Fifth fleets should have started their attacks on the other side of the ocean.

Atago then comments on how things would be starting to get interesting as the world will soon become a “livelier” reality, and tells Kongou to watch as a new era begins.

(Im guessing this event is more focused on the World War side of the story, as it does not really involve much plot about the Sirens and whatnot.)

(Its rather unusual how two of the cutscenes are named Outcome 1 and 2, im guessing both of them are actually an entire combined cutscene, and not having two alternate endings.)

(The Indomitable (92) is an Illustrious-class carrier. She was originally designated part of Task Force Z but ran aground near Trinidad en route to Singapore.)

First Fleet is made up of Akagi and Kaga

Second Fleet is made up of Soryuu and Hiryuu

Fifth Fleet is made up of Shoukaku and Zuikaku


--VISITORS DYED IN RED--

In the infinite cycle of rebirth, time has lost its meaning.

where probable and improbable converge,

All ephemerals are swept up in flames..

If it wasn’t for that lone encounter.

Might there be an different ending.

Is that you, “O Creator”?

Storm’s End PT. I and PT. II

While approaching the Sanctuary, Zuikaku notes the amount of destroyed ships around her, she tells herself that she must quickly contact Shoukaku, she suddenly encounters Akatsuki to her relief, but Akatsuki attempts to attack her, disappointed, Zuikaku promises to lift Akatsuki off her ‘curse’, possibly destroying her.

In Between

Two mystery characters are then discussing between each other about Zuikaku, with

???[1] noting that the “annoying pest” had taken the bait and that all systems were functioning properly.

??? [2] realises that it was Zuikaku, noting how persistent and naive she was.

She claims that those who opposed the “Creator” would eventually pay the price for their arrogance

??? [1] tells ??? [2] to send “them” (the molds and the other normie ships) to battle, as it was a good chance for them to test their new weapons given to them by the “Creator”

???[1] is infuriated by Zuikaku’s interference in her encounter with the “Creator” and says that her insolence must be punished.

(the two ??? characters in this scene are actually Akagi And Kaga, im guessing they’re named ??? to make the story have suspense)

The other side of Distress PT.I and PT.II

Zuikaku notes how the “pests” (normie boats) were stalling her, and that they would not be a problem had she not lost so many carriers in the storm (implying that she either had allies with her, or just normie carriers).

She suddenly receives a distress signal, and thought that it could’ve been from Shoukaku, she quickly embarks towards the signal, telling herself that she would not lose her sister this time.

When she arrived at the signal’s location, she realised it came from Ise and Hyuuga, she realises that the both of them had their souls taken, and engages in battle with the both of them.

Holy Protectors PT.I and PT.II

Moving on, Zuikaku meets a Yamashiro variant as she was looking for a sister, the variant attempts to stop her in her tracks ‘as per orders’. Once Yamashiro was defeated, Zuikaku asks Yamashiro if she decided to ‘spare’ her and asks her to tell her where her sister is if Yamashiro was ‘still herself’.

Yamashiro then tells her that her sister is sealed at the center of the Sanctuary. Before departing, Yamashiro tells Zuikaku that the Sakura Kingdom are not evil, and to spare them, Zuikaku promises her that she will not destroy them, and departs to the sanctuary.

In Between II

Meanwhile, the Sirens are alerted to Zuikaku’s presence, and though irritated by her arrival, they claim that she does not understand that it is the ‘Creator’s will and that they needed to make sure that the MOLD (Shoukaku) does not awaken, They then decide to send Nowaki to attempt to stall Zuikaku.

[From this piece of dialogue, im convinced that Shoukaku and Zuikaku in this story are the “original” versions of each other and the Sirens have captured Shoukaku in order to make more clones of her by using the MOLD.]

Lucky Ship PT.I and PT.II

Continuing on Zuikaku’s journey, she encounters Nowaki who tries to stop her, but is in the end defeated, to which Nowaki comments on Zuikaku’s power.

Zuikaku demands of her to reveal the Siren’s plans, Nowaki then tells her she was merely following the will of the Gods, to which Zuikaku explains to her that the so called ‘Gods’ they chose to obey were merely false Gods.

Sister’s Chain PT.I, PT.II and PT.III

A flashback scene that takes place in a past battle occurs, with Zuikaku telling her fleet to focus fire on Lexington, and Shoukaku telling her fleet to pay attention and not be careless, Zuikaku tells Shoukaku that the novices from the Eagle Union stand no chance against her Phantoms (planes) and tells her to quickly get the battle over with.

Shoukaku is alerted to a sudden increase of enemy aircraft, with over 80 of them approaching the sisters, Zuikaku is shocked by the news and questions how such a feat was possible. Shoukaku tells Zuikaku to find cover under the rain cloud as she stays behind to deal with the enemy.

Zuikaku refuses to leave her sister behind, but is reminded by Shoukaku that Shouhou was suffering and that they couldn’t afford to lose any more of their allies.

Before departing, Shoukaku tells Zuikaku that she will always protect her sister, and not to be so rash in the future.

Zuikaku tells Shoukaku that she will never let such an incident happen again.

The flashback ends. And the story continues.

Zuikaku continues onward with her journey, and encounters Shoukaku to her relief, however, Shoukaku does not respond and Zuikaku asks why she was doing this and Akagi suddenly appears, claiming that, in order for them to be favoured by the “Creator” a sacrifice must be made.

(so basically, her asking why she was doing this was directed to Akagi, but its not properly presented in the cutscene)

Kaga continues to explain that they were doing what they were doing for the sake of the Sakura Empire’s future.

Zuikaku calls Kaga a liar, saying that she was using those words to manipulate the entirety of the Sakura Empire, further explaining that such a curse brought upon them cannot be a gift from a God and will not deliver them to their future, saying that ever since her first fight, something was fishy.

Before Zuikaku got to attack Kaga, Akagi tells her to focus on fighting against her own sister first, as her soul had already been offered to the “Creator”, and that the Shoukaku she was looking at was merely a shell

(well really, she isn’t really a shell, she was just taken and made copies of, think like copy and paste but they removed her memory so she can’t really remember her sister.)

Zuikaku supposedly loses this fight in the story and Kaga attempts to take her soul, but before she could, Shoukaku attacks Kaga, Shoukaku starts rambling on about how she promised to protect Zuikaku forever.

(Shoukaku “awakened” herself in this scene and managed to get all memories of the past back.)

Kaga questions if what she was witnessing was an awakening, and notes how it was triggered by the mold (Shoukaku) being reminded of her most important memory at the right time and place, Akagi tells Kaga that it was time to retreat, as she had the logs saved for the “Creator”, and reminds her that if she saw any “Pawns” awaken it was her top priority to report it in the logs.

Zuikaku apologises for her carelessness, and how she never grew up, Shoukaku tells her not to worry, as long as Zuikaku was safe, they still had hope and that only Zuikaku was able to defeat the opponent upon them.

Shoukaku tells her that she will always be there to protect her no matter what, and told her to look ahead with confidence and stay true to their goals.

Before Zuikaku could continue, she tells Shoukaku to give chase to Akagi and Kaga to find out their intentions, as they could not let the future of the Sakura Empire be ruined in their hands.

Crimson Protectors PT.1

Akagi tells Kaga that all of the logs had been submitted to the “Creator” and that they had to await for their arrival, Kaga reminds her that Zuikaku was still chasing after them, Akagi then tells her that since they had already completed the task given by the “Creator” they had time to “toy” around with Zuikaku for now.

Kaga tells Akagi that she still hasn’t changed at all, after so long.

Crimson Protectors PT.II

Zuikaku asks Akagi and Kaga what kind of tricks they were up to, after being able to cheat death at the battle of AF, Akagi tells Zuikaku that the “Sanctuary” was made by the “Creator” and that in the “Sanctuary” their powers were limitless, and as long as they were able to offer more “high quality souls” they would be able to acquire such limitless power.

Zuikaku tells Akagi that she would never be able to defeat the Grey Ghost with such twisted power they have gained from betraying her own people.

Akagi, infuriated by Zuikaku’s words tells her to shut up.

Zuikaku tells Akagi that there is no future for her if she could not face the Grey Ghost without her power, telling her that they still had a chance to turn back now.

Akagi, tired of hearing “Grey Ghost” over and over, tells her that the Grey Ghost was no match for Akagi

Kaga tells Zuikaku that words alone were not enough, and to see for herself if she was a worthy opponent for the Grey Ghost.

Crimson Protectors PT.III

Akagi talks to the “Creator” asking her if she saw the glorious light emanating from “that soul” (Shoukaku’s awakening), telling her that it was so beautiful and fragile and that she couldn’t help but want to crush it in her grasp.

Kaga tells Akagi that she was so full of herself, but it didn’t matter as it would be over for her soon.

Though Akagi feels that it was regrettable, they leave the Sirens to do their work as they depart to the “new Sanctuary”

Zuikaku attempts to stop them, telling them she still had words to say, but before she could continue, the entirety of their reality began to slowly delete itself.

System:WARNING--the retrieval process has started, the text field is about to be dismantled

System:WARNING--the retrieval process has started, the text field is about to be dismantled

System:WARNING--the retrieval process has started, the text field is about to be dismantled

Kaga then tells her fellow “sisters” that everything in their world has its own cause and effect but through this infinite cycle of rebirth, Akagi and Kaga are always looking for another possibility and that one day, her “sisters” would understand the things they were doing and the way they were doing it, and wishes the guardians to look over her “sisters”

Tester Beta announces that the “Y test field” had completed another round of simulation, Observer A asks to see the results, and was surprised by the results of the ephemerals (Shoukaku and Zuikaku)

Tester Beta is amazed at the power of Shoukaku, as being able to protect and save her own people was beyond their own expectations.

Observer A notes at how the both of them were seeking to break free from the shackles of fate, and thought that she was always in control of everything, but everything from the start was merely a hypothesis

Tester Beta tells her that, according to the test data, they (Shoukaku and Zuikaku) were unexpectedly favored by the “Creator”

Observer A, disappointed by the “Creator” calls it a sick sense of humor by him/her.

Tester Beta tells Observer A that “they” need more experience before she could let the both of them face each other.

(My theory is that Tester Beta is making sure that Shoukaku and Enterprise are both strong enough before they face each other, I could be entirely wrong, and this is up to debate.)

Observer A begins resetting all of the “Pawns”, increasing the ‘Index’ by 5% and tells Tester Beta to release the “Key” to begin the next round of testing.

(From Visitors Dyed In Red, we can learn that the Sirens are posing as the “Creator” to Akagi and Kaga, with the real creator still being unknown.)

(Some other things of note is that Observer A and Tester Beta are labelled as ??? in the cutscenes, this is also likely to be a screw up on the dev’s end)

--FALLEN WINGS--

I thought...by defeating all my enemies… I’d finally get some peace.

But it appears… the future has betrayed us.

No matter the effort, there will always be battles ahead.

One by one they stand defiant in front of me… and one by one their faces disappear behind me… I can’t remember them anymore.

-- It is time, sisters.

The stars are mesmerizing tonight

--Mission Codename:Fallen Wings

A group of ships are alerted to an area following a mysterious signal, to which Helena tells the group that they were too late, to which North Carolina tells them that everything has turned to ruin. Helena then questions who were the people that could have been able to destroy the test field setup the Sirens had set up.

Helena suspected it could have been the Sakura Empire, but quickly corrects herself as traces of weapon damage did not look like it could have been the Sakura Empire or the Royal Navy, and infact resembled those of the Eagle Union’s

Washington then says that whoever did all the damage had done most of the work for them, and that they should explore their surroundings to collect any useful intel.

During their exploration, they come across new advanced variations of enemy ships who bear technology never seen before in their normal ventures, and after a long battle, they finally encounter a new type of Siren, as hinted by Helena, who claims that they do not have any data on the new type of Siren they were facing.

North Carolina tells the group that they should weaken the Siren they found and find out their motives.

SCENE I

The Sirens are then seen discussing about how there were no special observations from “Key Point G” and that the Eagle Union are intercepting the target, and one of the Sirens tells the other that “Key Point G” was actually sending a signal to attract the wasps (Eagle Union).

The other Siren then says that they have deployed Executor-class ships to the area, despite them being older models, and that they should be able to handle the Eagle Union, with the other saying that “should be” is not in their vocabulary and that the older models are definitely up to the task.

The Siren then tells the other not to underestimate the Eagle Union, and to prioritize the “search and rescue” first, and that the Eagle Union girls can serve as their new “combat experiment”.

Before embarking on their tasks, one of the Sirens asks herself how she can seduce “Key Point G” again.

SCENE II

A mysterious log named “Log_AtX15.00252.5.142 starts playing, it is not made clear if the Eagle Union girls themselves saw this log, or if it is just a flashback, the log begins with Observer A congratulating “Key Point G” on defeating all of their opponents, claiming that, “Key Point G” was meant to “save the world” again. (hinting at how it is all a cycle planned from the very start.)

“Key Point G” is then revealed to be Enterprise, but not the one we all know and love, more of an Alternate version, who then questions the Observer if she was mocking her, the Observer then claims that they would not dare to defy her, claiming that she was the “key” to their creator, elaborating that the Observers were molded to reflect this “alternate” Enterprise, being more or less flawless.

Observer A then asks if Alternate-Enterprise will allow them to conduct another round of “game” (game being experiment) as per their agreement, and asks for her choice, Enterprise then allows the Sirens to continue their game, and says that, no matter how many times she goes through the cycle, her choice is always the same, until she finds that “person” (could be referring to the CREATOR, god himself, I don’t know)

SCENE III

Another flashback is shown, this time with Alternate-Enterprise talking to a Commander, she notes how there were many stars at night, and asks if each star represents a different civilization, like the Commander said, and asks if they all lived normal lives, if they ate, played and chit chatted like Enterprise and the Commander, the Commander (displayed as ??? in the scenes) tells her that they were not alone in the universe after all.

Enterprise asks if she will ever meet the people from other civilizations, as she had many questions to ask them, the Commander then tells her that both of them will meet for sure, telling her that she must believe that humans are inherently enterprising, which was why the Commander gave Enterprise her name, and asks if she likes the name she was given, Enterprise says that she does.

[Displayed as the Commander saying he/she does but this is very likely a screw up on the devs end]

The both of them decide to make a promise, but before elaborating on, the memory module reader got interrupted and began trying to restart itself.

Back to the Eagle Union, Helena tells North Carolina that she has received an encrypted message from an unknown source and is going to attempt to decode it, North Carolina asks her how she was able to receive a signal from their allies at such a place, warning her that it could be a trap, Helena tells her that the encrypted message is full of incomprehensible words, with the only confirmed word being “FALLING” or FALLEN.

North Carolina tries to make sense of it, but nothing comes to mind, Washington grows impatient, claiming that whoever was sending them the signal was playing games with them, and plans to find whoever was sending them the signal and weaken whoever it is to get all of their questions answered. Helena sends a report to HQ before the group of them continue moving towards the source of the signal.

SCENE IV

The scene begins with warning alerts being sounded, alerting that the “5th defense line” had been broken, the alert continues with it alerting that the Fleet Destruction Rate had exceeded 82%, [???]2] then talks about how she tried to be gentle to this world, but did not expect that her being gentle was what hurt the world the most.

Claiming that, even if they borrowed the power of the ocean, they would still have no chance of defeating them, [???]1] elaborates that the so called “evolutionary process” (very likely referring to the Sirens own experiments they were conducting to allow the shipgirls to evolve) is actually a process of natural selection, the harsher the environment got the stronger the survivors become, until the strongest survivor becomes flawless, survival of the fittest, natural selection.

[This hints towards alternate Enterprise being the strongest, or the most flawless, which was why the Sirens were likely molded before her, as she was the perfect being]

[???]1] then tells [???]2] that her gentleness was the result of their tragic ending.

More alerts are being sounded as the alert details that the “Second Data Center” had encountered an accident and that the observation deck had been damaged.

[???]1] says that, although their tragic end, they still have a chance to correct the error made in history.

OBSERVER-ZERO is then revealed, her having a much different appearance

as the other Sirens as compared to the ones we battle throughout the story, [???]1] then tells her to reactivate the “Inquisitor” plan, telling her that Humanity’s past is now in her hands, she accepts the mission, and the game reveals that [???]1] is actually Inquisitor

[what an Inquisitor is, is not elaborated yet and may be elaborated in future events.]

The Inquisitor then says that, at the very end, they should have beautiful fireworks for their curtain call

[I’m guessing he suicide bombed the entire ship or something to high hell I don’t know]

CRISIS

Back to the present, Helena informs the group that their situation was worsening, though they had sunk two new models, more Siren signals were coming towards them and that they were surrounded, North Carolina questions the Siren’s abilities and wonders how they were able to perfectly predict their trajectory and surround them in their operations.

Washington wished South Dakota was with them so that they could take on the Sirens, though surrounded, Washington encourages the group to stand tall and to shoot their way out and carve a “blood soaked path” forward.

Helena notes that the amount of Sirens were increasing quickly, stating that they were trying to overwhelm the Eagle Union.

Though surrounded, Washington still encourages the group to continue fighting, Helena reports in again, saying that the enemy’s numbers were slowly decreasing.

North Carolina alerts the group that a large number of air units were spotted on her radar, but she was unable to identify the type of aircraft they were seeing.

All of a sudden, Alternate-Enterprise shows up out of nowhere and clears the entire Siren fleet, the Eagle Union, surprised at the sudden deaths of all the Sirens, question how all of them were destroyed, Helena informs the group that all Sirens on the SG radar were gone, but before they could go on, Washington tells them that they were being watched by someone.

Washington orders the “mystery-man” (Alternate Enterprise) to reveal himself, as she had her main guns locked onto him (or her) and to join her in a “proper battle” and prepares her main guns to fire.

North Carolina stops Washington before she was able to fire.

Helena tells the group that the signal sent by the “mystery man” was consistent with the previous encrypted messages, but the SG radar was unable to locate the unit and questions whether her SG radar was malfunctioning.

Washington notes the “mystery man’s” sneaky appearance, and told him (or her) that he/she could have been easily injured by friendly fire, she then tells the “mystery man” to identify himself (or he-im tired of this already you get the point).

Alternate-Enterprise ignores her questions, and finally speaks for the first time to the Eagle Union, telling them that she wants to confirm something with them, and asks for the name of their Commander, North Carolina tells Alternate-Enterprise that they had no obligation to answer her question, as Alternate-Enterprise did not confirm her identity, and that what she had asked was the highest of secrets.

Alternate-Enterprise then turns around (she was facing the back the whole time, yeah I know what the heck and she reveals her face to the group) and tells them that she will confirm it herself.

North Carolina questions how Alternate-Enterprise was able to destroy the entire Siren fleet by herself, and asks who she was, and notes Alternate-Enterprise’s cloak and immediately recognises her as Enterprise, though it is merely North Carolina mistaking her for the normal Enterprise, Alternate-Enterprise tells North Carolina that she was mistaken and the scene cuts to black.

“Mankind, actually lives a humble existence”

“But our small bodies are filled with infinite expectations and ideals.”

“We often put our own expectations and ideals and shape them to our desires, hoping they are eternal and powerful.”

“Once strong enough, they will replace our ephemeral physical existence and become and infinite spiritual sustenance.”

“This is also the meaning to your name”

“But… one day, if mankind abandons our highest ideals, and embarks on a completely contrary path”

“Are you willing… … To help us correct the wrongdoings of the future?”

[entire quote text is Alternate reality-Shikikan talking to Alternate-Enterprise]

ABYSS

Observer A tells Tester Beta that “Key Point G” had left the mirror sea area, and that she had lost the tracking signal, Tester Beta calls “Key Point G” a troublesome bug, as she could not understand her behaviour pattern, and notes that “Key Point G” specifically targeted this “time singularity” (could Alternate-Enterprise have time travelling powers like the Sirens?)

Observer A reassures Tester Beta, telling her that perhaps this was just

Alternate-Enterprise at work, and no matter what she does she will still join the Sirens in the end, just like before, and quotes a human (Alternate-Reality Shikikan) saying that

“The strongest people have the loneliest souls” implying that Alternate-Enterprise was just looking for friends. (what?)

Mystery Cutscene

A new character, Dearmweaver in the is shown talking about something subliminal, about how the Creator told “them” he/she recently saw Calamity fall from the sky, like a flash of lightning and that all those who followed its (Calamity?) rebellion turned into the ugliest of images, but still retained their glowing wings.

The Creator could not bear to see his beloved “work” being sullied, to allow them to glow from the depths of the Underworld.

Dearmweaver notes that humanity likes to make things interesting, and continues by saying that the terminal currently does not possess the capability of fighting “her”

Dearmweaver then asks all of “them” to take a trip to the Underworld.

The Tribunal.

(This scene is particular is very vague in what it is trying to say, im rather convinced the that the tribunal is NOT observer-zero and that the image of observer-zero shown in the mystery cutscene is meant to represent Dearmweaver talking about her. Again, I could be completely wrong and this is just my theory.)

(Another note is that Dearmweaver is meant to be Dreamweaver, and the devs spelt it wrongly, so theres that.)

